Welcome back in this lesson we're going to do some more fun stuff with canvas.
So go ahead and create your canvas tag give it an idea of canvas and now let's create some interaction
with it using javascript so window onload.
And whenever we load them we're going to launch the function.
So let's create that.
And we saw earlier that it's always better that the dorm has loaded before we always try to interact
with it.
So therefore let's set that up first.
And they also want to set those up those canvas items as global.
So we're going to do the same thing that we did before.
So variable canvas document get element by id and we're going to grab that canvas element and then next
let's do CTX So for our context and we're going to bring in the canvas object and we're going to do
the get context
so that we can draw into our canvas.
So Tuti
And now let's set a height and width of canvas so do canvas height.
So we're going to set our canvas height to 600 and we'll set our canvas with and maybe let's set that
one to 500.
And I need to create another function.
So within here is this is where I want to initiate the draw.
So it is going to create a function called draw.
So I go down and create a function called Drost so function and give it a name of draw and then within
here.
This is where animation will go.
So let's also set up a few other global variables.
So we're going to have position and we'll set the value of x to equal zero and we'll set the value of
y to equal 50.
So that's where our starting point is going to be that's where our initial circle or whatever we're
going to be creating is going to start at so save that go back out here and refresh it.
So there we go so we've got a nice big canvas all ready to go.
And to create some type of movement within draw.
So first thing that we need to do is let's take position X and let's take position X and incremented
by 5.
So position X plus position X equals plus 5 and that will give us some type of movement.
And we also need to check to make sure that position X does not exceed the width of canvas so it doesn't
exceed the canvas width and if it does then we're going to reset position X back to a value of zero.
So this way whenever we get to the end it's like it's going to basically start again and we can do this
for position Y as well.
So just in case we do decide to go with why we don't want to have that one running off the end as well.
So let's set that one up as well.
So this one is going to be position Y and we're going to check to make sure that position Y is not greater
than the height of the canvas.
And if it is then we're going to set position y at zero.
So basically now we can position our canvas image.
So next we need to actually draw it.
So let's go ahead and do CTX so because this is global we can access that within our function.
We're going to begin path.
So that's going to give us the ability to have a starting point brand new path and we want to add in
that arc so to CTX arc and we're going to set it at position X because now we've got dynamic values
within javascript and javascript's is going to be doing some of the controls of where we're positioning
our content so position x position Y and now we need to set a circle size so we can set it at 50.
And also let's set that math value.
So math and you can also do.
So again we're setting that angle to be zero because we don't need to angle it.
We can set math pi times too.
So we saw earlier that that actually builds us our circle.
And then what's the other thing that we need to do with the circle.
We need to either do the stroke or we need to do a film so in this case we're just going to do fill
through and fill out that circle and whenever we do fill it so it is a good idea to have a fill style
and the fill style can be whatever color we want it to be.
So I'm going to just make it red for now.
So there we go.
So we've got our position of our circle and now let's refresh it.
So we don't see anything happening yet and that's because we need to set a timeout.
So it's the window searched so we can set an interval or we can set a time out and if we set the time
that we can call the function within itself.
So basically this will allow us to continuously call that function using set time out.
And so there we go.
So we've got our circle it's moving but it actually looks more like a line because we're not actually
erasing what's within the canvas already.
And this is where we need to actually clear out the content of the canvas in order to be able to redraw
our circle.
So that's the first that we need to do coming in here.
We need to clear that out and we can do that as well.
So this is a clear rectangle and this one is starting at zero starting zero and canvas with so basically
where drawing a clear rectangle across the entire canvas.
So the whole height and width starting at point zero zero.
So now let's refresh it and there we go.
So we've got a circle moving across our screen if we want to speed it up.
I can update this to 50.
So be twice as fast.
So now we've got a little bit of a smoother motion as well.
And one of the thing that I want to show you so we've got the begin path.
And I also want to close off that path.
So we've got piggin path.
And then whenever we stop drawing that particular item we can do close Potthast it's actually not going
to look any different because by default it was already closing it.
But we need to do that in case we want to add in any additional items that might be moving within our
path.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video.
Draw the moving circle and I want you to add in a second one that's actually going to go down.
So moving on the position why.
And I want this one moving downwards.
So go ahead and try that.
So a second circle moving down.
Add that into the project and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So welcome back.
Hope you had an opportunity to try out creating some animation within your canvas.
And we said that we wanted to add a second circle.
So we need to duplicate some of the content that we have here and was actually not a whole lot that
we have to duplicate.
And this one is moving down.
So what I can do is I can make some updates there and instead of why incrementing by 5 let's do on X
incrementing by 5 let's do pause one y and increment that by five.
So there we go.
So we've basically got our premolars for our second circle and now it's just a matter of drawing it
so we can do it whatever color we want.
So let's make this one blue.
And this time it's going to be position x position Y and maybe this one's a bigger circle.
So it may cut 70 and then fill close.
So let's try that out.
So now we see we've got one circle moving to the right.
We've got one circle moving down and we should actually update this position of X because it's not very
centered so let's give it a value of 100.
So there we go.
So we've got several.
Moving circles and you can go in and you could add as many as you want we can just simply add that within
that same draw function because this is where all the drawing happens.
And this one here is what allows us to clear the content.
And basically if we didn't have this all we would be doing is drawing a line so we can see that that
in this case all we're doing is drawing lines because we're not actually clearing out the content.
So just like if you were doing an animation in real life you need a completely clear screen and then
that way you can create those animations where you're clearing out the screen blocked back to blank
and then drawing in the next location of the image as to illustrate animation within your canvas.